OSDOCS-14366 Additional context about the multi-flow filtering capability, updated yaml (#92375)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-filtering-ebpf-rule.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-filtering-ebpf-rule_{context}"]
= Filtering eBPF flow data

> You can configure the `FlowCollector` to filter eBPF flows using multiple rules and features to control the flow of packets cached in the eBPF flow table.

Reviewer: same, remove features

= Filtering eBPF flow data
You can configure the `FlowCollector` to filter eBPF flows using multiple rules and features to control the flow of packets cached in the eBPF flow table.

.Procedure
. In the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
. Under the *Provided APIs* heading for *Network Observability*, select *Flow Collector*.
. Select *cluster*, then select the *YAML* tab.
. Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource, similar to the following sample configurations:
. Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource, similar to the following sample configuration:
+
.Example `FlowCollector` YAML with multiple rules
+

[%collapsible]

> .Filter Kubernetes service traffic to a specific Pod IP endpoint

Reviewer: should not be removed but also need to mention about PAcketDrop

Reviewer: Filter Kubernetes service traffic to a specific Pod IP endpoint and service flows with Drops

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-filtering-ebpf-rule_{context}"]
= Filtering eBPF flow data using multiple rules
You can configure the `FlowCollector` to filter eBPF flows using multiple rules to control the flow of packets cached in the eBPF flow table.

.Procedure
. In the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
. Under the *Provided APIs* heading for *Network Observability*, select *Flow Collector*.
. Select *cluster*, then select the *YAML* tab.
. Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource, similar to the following sample configurations:

[IMPORTANT]
====

> You cannot use duplicate CIDRs in filter rules.

Reviewer 2: There's another important remark that I think should be mentioned:

If an IP matches several rules, only the one with the longest CIDR prefix will be evaluated.

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-filtering-ebpf-rule_{context}"]
= Filtering eBPF flow data using multiple rules
You can configure the `FlowCollector` to filter eBPF flows using multiple rules to control the flow of packets cached in the eBPF flow table.

[IMPORTANT]
====
You cannot use duplicate CIDRs in filter rules.
====

.Procedure
. In the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
. Under the *Provided APIs* heading for *Network Observability*, select *Flow Collector*.
. Select *cluster*, then select the *YAML* tab.
. Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource, similar to the following sample configurations:

[IMPORTANT]
====

> If an IP matches several rules, only the IP with the longest CIDR prefix is evaluated.

Reviewer: The 2 `important` sections can be combined I feel.
So basically move this to before L13

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-filtering-ebpf-rule_{context}"]
= Filtering eBPF flow data using multiple rules

> You can configure the `FlowCollector` to filter eBPF flows using multiple rules to control the flow of packets cached in the eBPF flow table.

Reviewer 3: I think that's a CR? needs a noun following the backticked string
```suggestion
You can configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource to filter eBPF flows using multiple rules to control the flow of packets cached in the eBPF flow table.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
* You cannot use duplicate CIDRs in filter rules.

> * If an IP matches several rules, only the IP with the longest CIDR prefix is evaluated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If an IP matches several rules, only the rule with the longest CIDR prefix is evaluated.
```

. Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource, similar to the following sample configurations:
+

.Example YAML to sample all North-South traffic, and 1:50 East-West traffic

> ====

Reviewer 3: Any place you remove the `[%collapsible]` line, you want to get rid of the `====` lines that were there to define the collapsible block start and end

  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      privileged: true <1>
      features: <2>
        - PacketDrop

>         - FlowRTT

Reviewer: remove this one

      flowFilter:

>         enable: true <3>

Reviewer: Customer can view Egress traffic and PacketDrop(blog) for Infra

enable: true <3>
        rules:
         - action: Accept  <1>
        cidr: 0.0.0.0/0 <2>
        protocol: TCP
        direction: Egress
        sourcePort: 100
        peerIP: 192.168.127.12 <3>
        enable: true    <4>
          - action: Accept
            cidr: 172.30.0.0/16
            pktDrops: true <6>

        rules:
          - action: Accept  <4>
            cidr: 172.210.150.1/24 <5>
            protocol: SCTP
            direction: Ingress
            destPortRange: 80-100
            peerIP: 10.10.10.10
          - action: Accept
            cidr: 172.30.0.0/16
            pktDrops: true <6>

>           - action: Reject

Reviewer: remove this Reject rule but need to mention somewhere that by default all other flows are rejected

            direction: Ingress
            destPortRange: 80-100
            peerIP: 10.10.10.10
          - action: Accept
            cidr: 172.30.0.0/16
            pktDrops: true <6>
          - action: Reject
            cidr: 0.0.0.0/0
----

> <1> The required `action` parameter describes the action that is taken for the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` or `Reject`. 

Reviewer: Instead of removing this YAML, need to update it to rules config

> <6> The `PacketDrop` feature requires an `action` parameter.

Reviewer: remove this line

spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: Direct
agent:
  type: eBPF

>   ebpf:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     ebpf:
```

Reviewer 2: you sure? I don't see an indentation issue, `ebpf` must be at the same level as `type`

Reviewer: oh yes, my bad. Ignore this

Reviewer 4: @jotak `spec` and `agent` are on the same level, `agent` and everything else below should be one level right.

Author: I see it now.

    flowFilter:
      enable: true <1>
      rules:
        - action: Accept <2>
          cidr: 172.30.0.0/16 <3>
          peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/16 <4>
          sampling: 10 <5>
        - action: Accept
          cidr: 10.128.0.0/16
          peerCIDR: 10.129.0.0/16
          sampling: 20
        - action: Accept
          cidr: 8.8.8.8/32
          sampling: 30
          peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/16
          protocol: ICMP

>           icmpType: 8

Reviewer 2: I know it's the example taken from the blog, but to me it doesn't really correspond to what the title says (EastWest vs NorthSouth). I think we should either change the rules or change the description. The description here would be something like:
**Keep only East-West traffic, and ICMP traffic to a specific IP**
But I'm not a big fan of that, I'd rather go more for something that is a known, well identified use case like this:

**Sample all North-South traffic, and 1:50 East-West traffic**
Which would correspond to this rule:

```yaml
      rules:
        - action: Accept
          cidr: 0.0.0.0/0
          sampling: 1
        - action: Accept
          cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
          peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/14
          sampling: 50
        - action: Accept
          cidr: 172.30.0.0/16
          peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/14
          sampling: 50
```

wdyt ? cc @memodi do you agree?

Reviewer: Yup this looks good too

  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: Direct
  agent:
  type: eBPF

>   ebpf:

Reviewer 4: seems indentation error here?

    flowFilter:
      enable: true <1>
      rules:
        - action: Accept <2>
          cidr: 172.30.0.0/16 <3>
          peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/14

>           sampling: 10

Reviewer 4: we should also describe `peerCIDR` and `sampling` param.

        - action: Accept
          cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
          peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/14
          sampling: 20
        - action: Accept
          cidr: 8.8.8.8/32
          sampling: 30

>           peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/14

Reviewer 4: since these examples provide overlapping CIDRs, I am not sure if it's allowed to have overlapping CIDRs and what would be the behavior in that case cc @Amoghrd

Reviewer: Duplicate peerCIDR's are allowed. Duplicate CIDR's are not allowed. So should be good

spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: Direct
agent:
  type: eBPF
  ebpf:
    flowFilter:
      enable: true <1>
      rules:
        - action: Accept <2>
          cidr: 0.0.0.0/0 <3>
          sampling: 1 <4>
        - action: Accept
          cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
          peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/14 <5>

>           sampling: 50

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      privileged: true <1>
      features:
        - PacketDrop
      flowFilter:

>         enable: true <2>

Reviewer: Thinking more about this, I feel instead of this example we can use the `Filter EastWest and NorthSouth flows` example in blog https://netobserv.io/posts/enhancing-netobserv-by-introducing-multi-rules-flow-filtering-capability-in-ebpf/

        rules:
          - action: Accept  <3>
            cidr: 172.210.150.1/24 <4>
            protocol: SCTP
            direction: Ingress
            destPortRange: 80-100
            peerIP: 10.10.10.10
          - action: Accept
            cidr: 172.30.0.0/16
            pktDrops: true <5>
----

> <1> The `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specification value must be true for packet drop tracking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` to `true` for packet drop feature.
```

> <2> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true` to enable this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true` to enable flow filtering.
```

<3> The required `action` parameter describes the action that is taken for the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` or `Reject`.
<4> The required `cidr` parameter provides the IP address and CIDR mask for the flow filter rule and supports IPv4 and IPv6 address formats. If you want to match against any IP address, you can use `0.0.0.0/0` for IPv4 or `::/0` for IPv6.

> <5> By default, all other flows are rejected.

Reviewer: Point <5> should be added to the next YAML as well

====
+
[%collapsible]

> .See flows to any addresses outside the cluster

Reviewer: And instead of this use `Filter flows with packet drops` example in the same blog

    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      flowFilter:
        enable: true <1>
        rules:
         - action: Accept <2>
           cidr: 0.0.0.0/0 <3>
           sampling: 1 <4>
         - action: Accept
           cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
           peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/14 <5>
         - action: Accept
           cidr: 172.30.0.0/16
           peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/14
           sampling: 50
----

> <1> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true` to enable eBPF flow filtering.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion: Put the "why" before the "what":
<1> To enable eBPF flow filtering, you must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true`.
```

> <2> The required `action` parameter specifies the action that is taken for the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` or `Reject`.

Reviewer 3: If these are the only valid values:
```suggestion
<2> The required `action` parameter specifies the action that is taken for the flow filter rule. Valid values are `Accept` or `Reject`.
```

<3> The required `cidr` parameter provides the IP address and CIDR mask for the flow filter rule and supports IPv4 and IPv6 address formats. If you want to match against any IP address, you can use `0.0.0.0/0` for IPv4 or `::/0` for IPv6.
<4> Sampling rate for the matched flows, overriding the global sampling defined at `spec.agent.ebpf.sampling`.
<5> The Peer IP CIDR to filter flows by.
+

> By default, all other flows are rejected.

Reviewer 3: Is this a new line intentionally? Other param explanations aren't split this way

> By default, all other flows are rejected.

Reviewer 3: If possible, the items in this list of callouts should have more parallel phrasing. Right now we have:
* To enable...
* The [XYZ] parameter specifies...
* The [ABC] parameter provides...
* Sampling rate... (sentence fragment)
* The [description of parameter function]...

spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: Direct
agent:
  type: eBPF
  ebpf:
    flowFilter:
      enable: true <1>
      rules:
        - action: Accept <2>
          cidr: 0.0.0.0/0 <3>
          sampling: 1 <4>
        - action: Accept
          cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
          peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/14 <5>
          sampling: 50
        - action: Accept
          cidr: 172.30.0.0/16
          peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/14
          sampling: 50
----
<1> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true` to enable eBPF flow filtering.
<2> The required `action` parameter describes the action that is taken for the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` or `Reject`.
<3> The required `cidr` parameter provides the IP address and CIDR mask for the flow filter rule and supports IPv4 and IPv6 address formats. If you want to match against any IP address, you can use `0.0.0.0/0` for IPv4 or `::/0` for IPv6. By default, all other flows are rejected.
<4> Sampling rate for the matched flows, overriding the global sampling defined at `spec.agent.ebpf.sampling`.
<5> The Peer IP CIDR to filter flows by.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, all other flows are rejected.
```

    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      flowFilter:
        enable: true <1>
        rules:
         - action: Accept <2>
           cidr: 0.0.0.0/0 <3>
           sampling: 1 <4>
         - action: Accept
           cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
           peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/14 <5>
         - action: Accept
           cidr: 172.30.0.0/16
           peerCIDR: 10.128.0.0/14
           sampling: 50
----
<1> To enable eBPF flow filtering, set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true`.
<2> To define the action for the flow filter rule, set the required `action` parameter. Valid values are `Accept` or `Reject`.
<3> To define the IP address and CIDR mask for the flow filter rule, set the required `cidr` parameter. This parameter supports both IPv4 and IPv6 address formats. To match any IP address, use 0.0.0.0/0 for IPv4 or ::/0 for IPv6.
<4> To define the sampling rate for matched flows and override the global sampling setting `spec.agent.ebpf.sampling`, set the `sampling` parameter.
<5> To filter flows by Peer IP CIDR, set the `peerCIDR` parameter.

> +

Reviewer 3: get rid of this line with the `+` and it should realign right
```suggestion
```

  deploymentModel: Direct
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      privileged: true <1>
      features:

>         - PacketDrop <2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - PacketDrop <2>
```

>     features:

Reviewer: The following lines(L75-82) also have incorrect indentation

      flowFilter:
        enable: true <3>
        rules:

>           - action: Accept <4>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - action: Accept <4>
```

>             cidr: 172.30.0.0/16

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          cidr: 172.30.0.0/16
```

>             pktDrops: true <5>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          pktDrops: true <5>
```

----

> <1> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` to `true` for the packet drop feature.

Reviewer 5: Same comment as above.

<2> You can start reporting the packet drops of each network flow by listing the `PacketDrop` parameter in the `spec.agent.ebpf.features` specification list.

> <3> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true` to enable eBPF flow filtering.

Reviewer 5: Same comment as above.

<4> The required `action` parameter specifies the action that is taken for the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` or `Reject`.
<5> Set `pktDrops` to `true` to filter flows containing drops.

> By default, all other flows are rejected.

Reviewer 3: Same comments on this one for the most part. List items could be more parallel, "By default, all other flows are rejected." on a new line stands out. 

In this case, the "By default, all other flows are rejected." bit is also formatted differently than the one above - not sure which is more correct. Does that statement mean to apply to the last callout, or to the YAML config as a whole?

  deploymentModel: Direct
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      flowFilter:
        enable: true <1>
        rules:
        - action: Accept  <2>
          cidr: 0.0.0.0/0 <3>
          protocol: TCP
          direction: Egress
          sourcePort: 100
          peerIP: 192.168.127.12 <4>
----
<1> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true` to enable the feature.

> <2> You can `Accept` flows based on the criteria in the `flowFilter` specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The required `action` parameter describes the action that is taken for the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` or `Reject`.
```

  deploymentModel: Direct
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      privileged: true <1>
    features:
      - PacketDrop <2>
    flowFilter:
      enable: true <3>
      rules:
        - action: Accept <4>
          cidr: 172.30.0.0/16

>           pktDrops: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          pktDrops: true <5>
```

----
<1> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` to `true` for the packet drop feature.
<2> You can start reporting the packet drops of each network flow by listing the `PacketDrop` parameter in the `spec.agent.ebpf.features` specification list.
<3> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true` to enable eBPF flow filtering.
<4> The required `action` parameter describes the action that is taken for the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` or `Reject`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Set `pktDrops` to `true` to filter flows containing drops
```

  deploymentModel: Direct
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      privileged: true <1>
    features:
      - PacketDrop <2>
    flowFilter:
      enable: true <3>
      rules:
        - action: Accept <4>
          cidr: 172.30.0.0/16
          pktDrops: true
        - action: Reject <5>

>           cidr: 0.0.0.0/0

Reviewer: Line 87,88 can be removed

----
<1> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` to `true` for the packet drop feature.
<2> You can start reporting the packet drops of each network flow by listing the `PacketDrop` parameter in the `spec.agent.ebpf.features` specification list.
<3> You must set `spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.enable` to `true` to enable eBPF flow filtering.
<4> The required `action` parameter describes the action that is taken for the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Accept` or `Reject`.

> <5> By default, all other flows are rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, all other flows are rejected.
```
